---
layout: post
title: "Erlang User Meetup (Riak) - London"
date: 2017-09-15
---

bet365 took the first steps in engaging with the Riak & Erlang community at
yesterday's Erlang User Group meetup, hosted by Erlang Solutions at their
offices in London. I headed down to London to join in with the fun. Thanks to
ESL for hosting the event, and also the free pizza and beer! As I had expected,
it proved be an insightful evening for all who attended, and a positively great
start in moving the project forward. Putting faces to names is always useful and
it was really good to meet everyone that came along.

The evening was focussed around a talk which was given by Andrew Deane,
Middleware Systems Development Manager at bet365. Andy started by providing a
brief context and outlining how bet365 came to choose Riak, the problems that it
has helped us to solve, and why we believe so strongly in the future of the
project – not just for ourselves, but for the wider community and the many
organisations who also leverage Riak.

A couple of high-level communications had been put out over the last few weeks
explaining about the acquisition of Basho's IPR by bet365. Following on from
those communications, and the completion of the necessary legal exchanges, it
was important for us to get out in front of the community, face-to-face, and
layout exactly why we had taken these steps, what events had led up to this
decision, and what it actually meant for everyone who is already invested in the
various Riak products. I think that Andy did a really fantastic job of
clarifying the whole situation, and it was very clear that this was well
received by everyone there. After the period of uncertainty that the project had
gone through and the great efforts to try and establish a path forward, it is
great to finally have the stability that everyone wants and a clear vision of
how the project will be handed over to the open-source community and carried
forward.

I had several people telling me how grateful they were that bet365 had taken
this initiative, with infectious enthusiasm, and to be honest, I have to say the
same – it's awesome! On a personal level, as someone who uses and contributes to
open-source software, I'm incredibly excited by this move. We use open-source
software throughout our entire stack at bet365, and the move towards community
engagement and collaboration is just brilliant.

The project is not without its challenges, though. I think that we have a lot of
work to do in deciding the best way to move development forward – things like
which branch do we take at the development branch? What happens with the
thousands of issues, some of which stretch back to the earliest versions of Riak
that are not even in use any more? There's a strong argument to remove
under-utilised components from Riak and take it back to a more honed,
performant, much simpler version of its current self. Personally, the last point
is something that I'm mostly on board with, but part of the challenge is
coordinating with the community and reaching consensus on what is actually best
for everyone and  agreeing the optimal approach to the problems that we
identify. The challenges certainly are plenty.

The upcoming workshop event that's being held at the bet365 offices will help to
piece together the framework that provides the foundation for tackling such
problems. We will also be in a position to collectively formulate a roadmap that
is aggregated from the work that everyone currently has in-flight and scheduled
for the future.

The future is looking incredibly positive for Riak, especially considering the
recent period of uncertainty. There's a solid community around it, with as great
a pool of technical expertise as you will find anywhere. It's an exciting time,
and it's an exciting project to be a part of. I look forward to working with the
community and helping to make Riak an even better product for everyone.

